                        Rivetweb README
                        ---------------

 Rivetweb is a minimum requirements Tcl based engine for creating template 
based websites. 
 
 Rivetweb relies on Rivet (http://tcl.apache.org/rivet/) for doing most
of the work needed to create and manipulate content to be put in
HTML pages. Rivetweb basically exploits the ability of Rivet of handling 
templates as models structuring HTML code into pages having a consistent
appearance thorough a whole website.

 Rivetweb internal organizazion emphasizes indipendence from actual
implementation of its components. Rivetweb wants to be customizable so 
that you may extend and/or reimplement specific components and still have
them working with the other components. 

 As of today Rivetweb is largely only a basic framework and attempts to
be a workable ground for developing a Tcl based website framework. 
For instance data are now read only from XML documents bearing both metadata 
and content of a page. The data source implemented in tcl/datasource/xmldata.tcl 
(which does the actual work of reading the files and filling Rivetweb 
database) can be taken as a model for implementing more data sources. 
Data in XML files may not be practical but they provide a good 
workable representation of the abstract form of data coming from any
data source, hence they offer a good starting point for the development of 
Rivetweb.

 As long as you are delivering pure static pages, Rivetweb lets your 
dynamically generated pages appear as if every internal link is
pointing to good old static .html files. By adding a few simple mod_rewrite
rules you can fake your website to be made out of only static 
HTML pages and generate an entirely static copy of them for both on-line 
and off-line browsing. As a consequence, by means of any mirror tool 
(e.g. wget) you can recreate a local copy of the website completely rewritten 
in .html files. This copy can be thus deployed with *any* webserver or even 
distributed on a Pendrive or a CD-ROM for offline browsing.

 A Rivetweb web site can be running several XHTML/CSS templates at the same 
time, you just switch from one to another by passing the 'template' parameter 
in the URL. This might be useful if you want to test different styles, 
compare them and let your customers decide which is best to their taste.

 Rivetweb is thought to be multilingual. Its page model interface handles
language codes.

Rivetweb has a basic support for extensibility: page creation can be 
customized adding 'hooks' procedure to the code, thus adding new data 
transformations.

 Rivetweb is based on Rivet. Rivet is a module and a Tcl programming suite 
for the Apache HTTP Webserver. 

 You may find Rivetweb useful if your goal is creation and management
of small to medium size web sites bearing static content. Rivetweb maintains
strict separation between content, representation and structure of the web site,
it's template based, so you can easily change the XHTML/CSS code underlying
your pages and produce a whole entirely re-styled web site.

Rivetweb is entirely free and released under Apache 2.0 licence.

# 2012-01-04
